# Authenticating and Certifying Conversations

A carrier / telco knows both participants of a conversation were in Germany as the call was made over their network by devices physically connected to their network. Certifying the conversation was made in Germany places additional restrictions on how the data can be used to protect both parties. Personal data is constitutionally protected in Germany. This means individuals have the power to decide when and to what extent personal information is published.

To comply with the Dodd-Frank act's call recording regulations, companies must keep all communication records made through the telephone, voicemail, email, and others, and these records must be uniformly time stamped. A carrier could provide this as a service, recording all conversations made by a business’s mobile phones, and sharing with the business as a vCon. The conversation could additionally be processed by the carrier or CPaaS/UCaas/CCaaS to confirm no PII was shared in this conversation, or certify no keywords specified by the business were found. A business would only want to pay once for that service and attach the certification to the vCon.

Phone numbers can be spoofed. But within a carrier’s network they have knowledge of the device’s identity, its location, its phone number, its SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) card identity, the owner’s account, how long they have had that number or device, etc. There is no other agency that can confirm the identities of the parties on a call with such confidence. A carrier could certify the identities on a vCon.
